[CIAPP] Document custom tags and metrics (#13957)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/custom_tags_and_metrics.md

---
title: Adding Custom Tags and Metrics to Pipeline Traces
kind: documentation
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/setup_pipelines/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available for the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

The custom tags and metrics commands provide a way to add user defined text and numerical tags to the CI Visibility
pipeline traces.
These tags can be used to create facets (string value tags) or measures (numerical value tags). Facets and measures
can, in turn, be used to search, graph, or monitor the pipelines.

## Compatibility

Custom tags and metrics work with the following CI providers:

- Buildkite
- CircleCI
- GitLab (SaaS or self-hoster >= 14.1)
- GitHub.com (SaaS). **Note:** For GitHub tags and metrics can only be added to the pipeline span

## Installing the Datadog CI CLI

Install the [`datadog-ci`][1] (>=v1.15.0) CLI globally using `npm`:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci

> {{< /code-block >}}

Author: I added a section with this info, good call.

## Adding tags to pipeline traces

Tags can be added to the pipeline span or to the job span. To do this run:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag [--level <pipeline|job>] [--tags <tags>]
{{< /code-block >}}

> A valid [Datadog API key][2] has to be specified using the eniroment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valid [Datadog API key][2] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.
```

{{< site-region region="us5,us3,eu" >}}

> The [Datadog site][3] has to be specidied using the enviromental variable `DATADOG_SITE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Datadog site][3] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.
```

{{< /site-region >}}

The example below adds the tag `team` to the pipeline span.

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag --level pipeline --tags team:backend
{{< /code-block >}}

The example below adds the tag `go.version` to the span for the current job.

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag --level job --tags "go.version:`go version`"
{{< /code-block >}}

You can then create facets from the tags by click on the gear next to the tag name in the [pipeline executions page][4]
and then clicking on the `create facet` option.

{{< img src="ci/custom-tags-create-facet.mp4" alt="Facet creation for custom tag" style="width:100%;" video="true">}}

## Adding metrics to pipeline traces

Numerical tags can be added to the pipeline span or the job span. To do this run:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci metric [--level <pipeline|job>] [--metrics <metrics>]
{{< /code-block >}}

> A valid [Datadog API key][2] has to be specified using the eniroment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A valid [Datadog API key][2] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.
```

{{< site-region region="us5,us3,eu" >}}

> The [Datadog site][3] has to be specidied using the enviromental variable `DATADOG_SITE`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Datadog site][3] has to be specified using the enviroment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.
```

---
title: Adding Custom Tags and Metrics to Pipeline Traces
kind: documentation
further_reading:
  - link: "/continuous_integration/troubleshooting/"
    tag: "Documentation"
    text: "Troubleshooting CI"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CI Visibility is not available for the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}).</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

<div class="alert alert-info">Custom tags and metrics is a beta feature and the API is still open to changes.</div>

> The custom tags and metrics commands provide a way to add user defined text and numerical tags to the CI Visibility

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The custom tags and metrics commands provide a way to add user-defined text and numerical tags to your CI Visibility
```

pipeline traces.
These tags can be used to create facets (string value tags) or measures (numerical value tags). Facets and measures

> can, in turn, be used to search, graph, or monitor the pipelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can then be used to search, graph, or monitor the pipelines.
```

## Compatibility

Custom tags and metrics work with the following CI providers:

- Buildkite
- CircleCI

> - GitLab (SaaS or self-hoster >= 14.1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- GitLab (SaaS or self-hosted >= 14.1)
```

> - GitHub.com (SaaS). **Note:** For GitHub tags and metrics can only be added to the pipeline span

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- GitHub.com (SaaS) **Note:** For GitHub, tags and metrics can only be added to the pipeline span.
```

## Installing the Datadog CI CLI

Install the [`datadog-ci`][1] (>=v1.15.0) CLI globally using `npm`:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
npm install -g @datadog/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}

> Alternatively you can try and use the beta [standalone binary][2] if you don't want to use `npm`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the beta [standalone binary][2] if you don't want to use `npm`.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Linux" %}}
To install the standalone binary on Linux run:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
curl -L --fail "https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/releases/latest/download/datadog-ci_linux-x64" --output "/usr/local/bin/datadog-ci" && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "MacOS" %}}
To install the standalone binary on MacOS run:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
curl -L --fail "https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/releases/latest/download/datadog-ci_darwin-x64" --output "/usr/local/bin/datadog-ci" && chmod +x /usr/local/bin/datadog-ci
{{< /code-block >}}
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}
To install the standalone binary on Windows run:

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-ci/releases/latest/download/datadog-ci_win-x64.exe" -OutFile "datadog-ci.exe"
{{< /code-block >}}
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Adding tags to pipeline traces

> Tags can be added to the pipeline span or to the job span. To do this run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tags can be added to the pipeline span or to the job span. To do this, run:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag [--level <pipeline|job>] [--tags <tags>]
{{< /code-block >}}

> A valid [Datadog API key][3] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.
```

{{< site-region region="us5,us3,eu" >}}

> The [Datadog site][1] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must specify the [Datadog site][1] using the environment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.
```

[1]: /getting_started/site/
{{< /site-region >}}

> The example below adds the tag `team` to the pipeline span.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example adds the tag `team` to the pipeline span:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag --level pipeline --tags team:backend
{{< /code-block >}}

> The example below adds the tag `go.version` to the span for the current job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example adds the tag `go.version` to the span for the current job:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci tag --level job --tags "go.version:`go version`"
{{< /code-block >}}

> You can then create facets from the tags by click on the gear next to the tag name in the [pipeline executions page][4]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create facets from the tags, click the gear icon next to the tag name in the [pipeline executions page][4],
```

> and then clicking on the `create facet` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and then click the **create facet** option.
```

{{< img src="ci/custom-tags-create-facet.mp4" alt="Facet creation for custom tag" style="width:100%;" video="true">}}

## Adding metrics to pipeline traces

> Numerical tags can be added to the pipeline span or the job span. To do this run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add numerical tags to the pipeline span or the job span, run:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci metric [--level <pipeline|job>] [--metrics <metrics>]
{{< /code-block >}}

> A valid [Datadog API key][3] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must specify a valid [Datadog API key][3] using the environment variable `DATADOG_API_KEY`.

```

{{< site-region region="us5,us3,eu" >}}

> The [Datadog site][1] has to be specified using the environment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must specify the [Datadog site][1] using the environment variable `DATADOG_SITE`.
```

[1]: /getting_started/site/
{{< /site-region >}}

> The example below adds the metric `error_rate` to the pipeline span.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example adds the metric `error_rate` to the pipeline span:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci metric --level pipeline --metrics "error_rate:0.56"
{{< /code-block >}}

> The example below adds a metric `binary.size` to the span for the currently running job.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example adds a metric `binary.size` to the span for the currently running job:
```

{{< code-block lang="bash" >}}
datadog-ci metric --level job --metric "binary.size:`ls -l dst/binary | awk '{print \$5}' | tr -d '\n'`"
{{< /code-block >}}

> You can create a measure by clicking on the gear next to the metrics name in the [pipeline executions page][4]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a measure, click the gear icon next to the metrics name in the [pipeline executions page][4]
```

> and then clicking on the `create measure` option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and then click the **create measure** option.
```
